README.md, before:

![Veritaserum](https://github.com/uesteibar/veritaserum/raw/master/veritaserum_logo.png)

# Veritaserum

Simple sentiment analysis for [Elixir](http://elixir-lang.org/) based on the AFINN-165 list and some extra enhancements.

It also supports:
- **emojis** (❤️, 😱...)
- **boosters** (*very*, *really*...)
- **negators** (*don't*, *not*...).

## Index

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Running Locally](#running-locally)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Installation

Add `veritaserum` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [{:veritaserum, "~> 0.1.0"}]
end
```

## Usage

To analyze a text
```elixir
Veritaserum.analyze("I love Veritaserum!") #=> 3

# It also supports emojis
Veritaserum.analyze("I ❤️ Veritaserum!") #=> 2

# It also supports negators
Veritaserum.analyze("I like Veritaserum!") #=> 2
Veritaserum.analyze("I don't like Veritaserum!") #=> -2

#and boosters
Veritaserum.analyze("Veritaserum is cool!") #=> 1
Veritaserum.analyze("Veritaserum is very cool!") #=> 2
```

You can also pass a list
```elixir
Veritaserum.analyze(["I love Veritaserum!", "I hate some things!"]) #=> [3, -3]
```

## Running locally

Clone the repository
```bash
git clone git@github.com:uesteibar/veritaserum.git
```

Install dependencies
```bash
cd veritaserum
mix deps.get
```

To run the tests
```bash
mix test
```

To run the lint
```elixir
mix credo
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are always welcome =)

The project uses [standard-version](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/standard-version) to update the [Changelog](https://github.com/uesteibar/veritaserum/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) with each commit message and upgrade the package version.
For that reason every contribution should have a title and body that follows the [conventional commits standard](https://conventionalcommits.org/) conventions (e.g. `feat(analyzer): Make it smarter than Jarvis`).


Documentation can be found on [HexDocs](https://hexdocs.pm/veritaserum).

Commit message:

perf(evaluator): Read word files and generate methods on compilation
Instead of reading from the source json files on runtime, now we generate one method per word in the
Evaluator module on compile time, to evaluate words through pattern matching instead. That's 3483
methods in Veritaserum.Evaluator :scream:! That drops the test coverage, but no problem, the real
cases are still covered :smile:.

README.md, after:

# Veritaserum

Simple sentiment analysis for [Elixir](http://elixir-lang.org/) based on the AFINN-165 list and some extra enhancements.

It also supports:
- **emojis** (❤️, 😱...)
- **boosters** (*very*, *really*...)
- **negators** (*don't*, *not*...).

## Index

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Running Locally](#running-locally)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Installation

Add `veritaserum` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

```elixir
def deps do
  [{:veritaserum, "~> 0.1.0"}]
end
```

## Usage

To analyze a text
```elixir
Veritaserum.analyze("I love Veritaserum!") #=> 3

# It also supports emojis
Veritaserum.analyze("I ❤️ Veritaserum!") #=> 2

# It also supports negators
Veritaserum.analyze("I like Veritaserum!") #=> 2
Veritaserum.analyze("I don't like Veritaserum!") #=> -2

#and boosters
Veritaserum.analyze("Veritaserum is cool!") #=> 1
Veritaserum.analyze("Veritaserum is very cool!") #=> 2
```

You can also pass a list
```elixir
Veritaserum.analyze(["I love Veritaserum!", "I hate some things!"]) #=> [3, -3]
```

Documentation can be found on [HexDocs](https://hexdocs.pm/veritaserum).

## Running locally

Clone the repository
```bash
git clone git@github.com:uesteibar/veritaserum.git
```

Install dependencies
```bash
cd veritaserum
mix deps.get
```

To run the tests
```bash
mix test
```

To run the lint
```elixir
mix credo
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are always welcome =)

The project uses [standard-version](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/standard-version) to update the [Changelog](https://github.com/uesteibar/veritaserum/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) with each commit message and upgrade the package version.
For that reason every contribution should have a title and body that follows the [conventional commits standard](https://conventionalcommits.org/) conventions (e.g. `feat(analyzer): Make it smarter than Jarvis`).

To make this process easier, you can do the following:

Install `commitizen` and `cz-conventional-changelog` globally
```bash
npm i -g commitizen cz-conventional-changelog
```

Save `cz-conventional-changelog` as default
```bash
echo '{ "path": "cz-conventional-changelog" }' > ~/.czrc
```

Instead of `git commit`, you can now run
```
git cz
```
and follow the instructions to generate the commit message.
